
# VIEPPEN-FORM REACT COMPONENT


## THE formConfig.json
The [formConfig.json] is the primary configuration file, which you need to create and modify your forms. It has to be placed in a [FormManager] folder in the projects public folder.
The [formConfig.json] will include the content, structure, and event data of all your forms. To create a new form, simply assign a new object with its designated name as the key. Inside of that object, you will have a ["stylesheet"] field, in which you will give the name of the stylesheet you would like this form to use; a ["content"] object, in which you will declare all components that are part of the form; a ["structure"] object, in which you can set different form layouts and custom stylesheets depending on the width of the device that is currently active; and an ["events"] object, in which you can setup simple conditional events, such as hiding part of the form if a checkbox is checked.
["storage"]...
["commonClass"]... is appended to every dom element in the class


### The "content" object
Inside the ["content"] object you may define as many form fields as you want, by creating a new object with the components name as the key. Inside the component object, you have to set the ["type"] to one of the supported component types (such as "text", "password", "submit", etc; full list below). Different component types require/support different fields, which you can define. You can find a list of all types and their respective fields further below.

### The "structure" object
Inside the ["structure"] object you may define various conditional layouts for your form for different device sizes. To do so create a new device object with the device name as the key (the device name is currently only relevant to make your json easier to read). Inside each device object, you can set an additional stylesheet that is only active while this device layout is being used by naming it in the ["custom-stylesheet"] field. Use the ["width-min"] and ["width-max"] fields to define the screen-size margins (in px) during which the layout of the device object will be used. You should avoid having overlapping margins (the min-margin is inclusive, the max exclusive), but in the case of overlap, the first defined structure will be used by default.


## COMPONENT SETUP

First of all, you will have to import the Component from the dependency:
``` javascript
import Form from 'vieppen-form';
```
In this walkthrough, we will work with a component class. Initialize the formData in your component's state as follows:
```javascript
class YourComponent extends Component {
    constructor(props) {
        super(props);
        this.state = {
            formData: Form.getEmptyFormData("formName")
        };
    }
    ...
}
```
Don't forget to change the ["formName"] parameter to whatever you named your form in the config. We will later pass this formData to the data prop of the Form Component.

Now place the Form component in the return of your render function (or in any other JSX) as such:
```javascript
class YourComponent extends Component {
    ...
    render() {
        return (
            <Form name="formName" data={this.state.formData} />
        )
    }
    ...
}
```
Once again, don't forget to change the [name] property to whatever you named it in your [formConfig.json]. For reference, here is a list of all properties that are accepted by the [Form] component:
- name (mandatory, has to correspond to a name in formConfig.json)
- data (mandatory, has to be generated by getEmptyFormData(formName))
- onChange (optional, should have props (field, value) and contain a call of updateFormData(data, field, value), !mandatory if you use typical input components) !DONT FORGET TO BIND THE PASSED FUNCTION
- onSubmit (optional, should have prop (valid) if checkValidity is true, !mandatory if you use submit components) !DONT FORGET TO BIND THE PASSED FUNCTION
- checkValidity (optional, true/false, prompts the form to check its fields for valid inputs)
- errorDisplay: JSX to be rendered in case of an error.

As mentioned above, if your form contains input components, you will need to pass an onChange function. Declare it in the scope of your component class and bind it in the constructor as such:
```javascript
this.handleFormChange = this.handleFormChange.bind(this);
```
This function should also contain the static [updateFormData()] function of the Form class. Your function should look as follows (but you can customise it, or not use the premade function to update your data):
```javascript
class YourComponent extends Component {
    ...
    handleFormChange(field, value, eventData) {
        let data = Form.updateFormData(this.state.formData, field, value);
        this.setState({ formData: data });
    }
    ...
}
```
In this case, the [this.state.formData] is what you previously generated using [Form.getEmptyFormData()]. The [eventData] field is optional, and you should not include it unless you plan to customize events using the eventData.

## INPUT FIELDS AND THEIR CHARACTERISTICS

### any type
### fields:
#### customClass: (assign one or more additional className to a component)
#### optional (true/false, makes the form optional to a validity check)
#### no-hide

### type: text / email / password / textarea
### fields:
#### placeholder (defines a visible value when the field is empty)
#### default (defines a default value when the form is first loaded)
#### textarea wrap, form and dirname attributes are not supported!


### type: checkbox
### fields:
#### default (true/false, default value when the form is first loaded)

### type: submit
### fields:
#### text (button text)

### type: horizontal-line

### type: header / label
### fields:
#### text (text to be displayed)


## Classes

All DOM Elements
(commonClass)

<div> Wrapper
.form-wrapper           .(formName)-wrapper
.form-row-wrapper       .(formName)-row-wrapper

All Elements
.form-element           .(formName)-element         .form-element-(fieldName)
(customClass)

<input> Elements
.form-input             .(formName)-input
.form-input-text        .(formName)-input-text
.form-input-password    .(formName)-input-password
.form-input-email       .(formName)-input-email
.form-input-checkbox    .(formName)-input-checkbox
.form-input-submit      .(formName)-input-submit

<span> Elements
.form-header            .(formName)-header
.form-label             .(formName)-label

<p> Elements
.form-paragraph         .(formName)-paragraph

<hr> Elements
.form-horizontal-line   .(formName)-horizontal-line


.form-input-error
.form-input-text-error
.form-input-textarea-error
.form-input-checkbox-error (:checked)
